 Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today is an Ask Me Anything episode, or AMA. This is part of our premium subscriber channel. Our premium subscriber channel was started in order to provide support for the standard Huberman Lab podcast, which comes out every Monday and is available at zero cost to everybody on all standard feeds, YouTube, Apple, Spotify, and elsewhere. We also started the premium channel as a way to generate support for exciting research being done at Stanford and elsewhere, research on human beings that leads to important discoveries that assist mental health, physical health, and performance. I'm also pleased to inform you that for every dollar the Huberman Lab premium channel generates for research studies, the tiny foundation has agreed to match that amount. So now we are able to double the total amount of funding given to studies of mental health, physical health, and human performance. If you'd like to subscribe to the Huberman Lab podcast premium channel, please go to HubermanLab.com/premium. It is $10 a month to subscribe, or you can pay $100 all at once to get an entire 12 month subscription for a year. We also have a lifetime subscription model that is a one-time payment. And again, you can find that option at HubermanLab.com/premium. For those of you that are already subscribers to the premium channel, please go to HubermanLab.com/premium and download the premium subscription feed. And for those of you that are not Huberman Lab podcast premium subscribers, you can still hear the first 20 minutes of today's episode and determine whether or not becoming a premium subscriber is for you. So without further ado, let's get to answering your questions. The first question is about resveratrol. The question specifically is, and I quote, "There seems to be a lot of conjecture about resveratrol and whether or not it can extend lifespan. Could you please tell us your thoughts on this subject?" Okay, well, I will indeed tell you my thoughts on this subject, and I'll use it as an opportunity to also give you my thoughts about supplementation for sake of longevity, that is for extending lifespan more generally. So resveratrol got a lot of attention some years back because of at the time, it was believed that supplementing with resveratrol could impact certain cellular pathways that would extend not just the lifespan of those individual cells, but perhaps the lifespan of the entire organism, meaning us, humans. And as a consequence, supplements such as resveratrol supplements, but also grape seed extracts, which we know contain a fair amount of resveratrol or can be converted into resveratrol, also received a lot of attention for the potential to increase lifespan. Now, I think by now, 2023, it's fair to say that most of that thinking has been, let's just say debunked. I think that most people understand that while indeed resveratrol might have some positive effects on the functioning of our cells, that there is very little, if any, direct evidence that resveratrol can increase lifespan. If you are aware of any data to the contrary, that is modern, is highly controlled, and even better was carried out in human studies or non-human primate studies or even mouse studies, please put links to those in the comments on YouTube because I'd love to see those studies, especially recent studies. But my current line of thinking is that resveratrol, while it may have certain health benefits, does not seem to increase lifespan. Now, with that said, that doesn't mean that things like resveratrol or grape seed extract are of zero utility. In fact, I take 400 to 800 milligrams of grape seed extract, usually with a meal, as just part of my standard supplementation stack, every single day. But I do that mainly for its effects on vascular function and blood flow and a few other effects that grape seed extract has been related to. The data there, I would say, are reasonably strong, strong enough, certainly, that when weighed against the potential downsides of taking grape seed extract, including the cost of grape seed extracts, lead me to take 400 to 800 milligrams of grape seed extract per day. I just do that as a general insurance policy against a number of things. And it's part of a small kit of supplements that I take that fall into that category, meaning supplements that appear to be very safe, certainly at the dosages that I just referred to, supplements that potentially are having positive effects on ourselves and that are fairly, if not very low cost. Okay, so that's why I take grape seed extract. I do not take it for its potential impact on resveratrol and resveratrol-related pathways per se, and certainly not to extend my lifespan. So that basically answers the question that I was asked, which is, what are your thoughts on resveratrol for extending lifespan? My answer was, I don't think it extends lifespan, but I take something related to resveratrol for other health purposes. And by the way, I certainly wouldn't place grape seed extract in my list of top five or even top 10 supplements. If somebody, for instance, said, I want to take anywhere from one to 10 supplements, and I have X amount of budget to devote to supplementation, and I'm thinking about taking grape seed extract, would that be one of the top 10 supplements you would recommend? I certainly wouldn't put it in the top 10. And by the way, at some point in the not too distant future, I will put online, so I'll probably do a podcast episode listing out all the supplements that I take and the rationale behind those and how long I've taken them and the effects that I've observed, both subjectively and in my blood work and what I recommend to other people, what I don't recommend to other people, what's specific to me, and so on and so forth. But meanwhile, that's my answer to the question. I don't think resveratrol increases longevity. At least, I'm not aware of any direct evidence for that in humans. Now, with that said, let's use this as an opportunity to talk about some of the other so-called longevity supplements and drugs that are often discussed online and elsewhere in terms of their efficacy to increase lifespan. About four or five years ago, there was a sudden and increased attention on NAD-related pathways for increasing longevity. So the NAD pathway, as some of you may already know, is a pathway within all of our cells. This is a pathway that is highly active in young animals and humans, but all animals and humans across the entire lifespan make NAD in their cells. It's related to cellular energetics, that is, the production of energy in cells. It has direct relevance to mitochondrial function and mitochondrial function to it. And that's a discussion into itself. But suffice to say that the pathway leading to NAD includes things such as NR and NMN. NR and NMN are considered by many to be precursors to NAD. Okay, so why am I telling you all these acronyms? Here's the deal. The argument was made, in fact, by some prior guests on the Huberman Lab podcast and elsewhere, that by increasing NAD levels in our cells, that one could potentially extend lifespan. And there are generally three ways in which people have attempted to do that. Okay, we'll talk about whether or not increasing NAD in our cells actually increases lifespan in a moment. But for the time being, let's just talk about some of the ways that people have tried to increase NAD within their brain and body. The most typical ways that people have done that is through, until very recently, supplementation. And so there are supplements out there such as NR, which we know can increase NAD levels. So this is taken as a pill or a powder, sort of typically as a capsule or a powder, or by taking NMN, which, and here there's been some, let's just say debate as to whether or not taking NMN actually leads to increases in NAD within our cells, whether or not it can get into our cells, whether or not it's converted into NAD and so on and so on. But there again, the idea was by taking NAD either in capsule form or it's sometimes taken as a sublingual powder that one could increase NAD levels and thereby potentially increase lifespan. And then there's a third way that's commonly used to try and increase NAD levels. And that's by infusing, by intravenous infusion, or in some cases by oral administration, either liquid or pill form NAD itself. Now, I confess that I have tried all three of these approaches, okay? So I do indeed take an NR supplement every day. I take 500 milligrams of NR. I also, and have separately taken an NMN supplement. I take sublingual NMN. So I'll take anywhere from one to two grams of NMN as a sublingual powder, which as the name suggests, you put it under your tongue and it dissolves there. It's got this kind of tangy flavor. And the goal for me in taking NR and NMN each day, and I should mention that sometimes I have just taken NMN or just NR to do the comparison between NR and NMN for me in a subjective way, just comparing what are my energy levels, how do I feel, whether or not there are any side effects. And then I've also taken them together and I've arrived at a protocol where I take NR and NMN every single day. And the goal of that is indeed to increase NAD levels within my system. However, and I really want to emphasize this, I do not take NR and NMN in order to increase my lifespan. In fact, at this point in history, it's unclear and seems somewhat unlikely that increasing NAD is going to increase lifespan, but I think we should always keep our minds open. There may be data to arrive in the future that shows that that actually does happen in humans. Now, there are some animal data suggesting that increasing NAD either by taking NR and or NMN can increase lifespan. But frankly, that is not why I take NR and NMN. I take NR and NMN in an effort to increase NAD. And now I realize what I'm about to say is entirely subjective and I really want to highlight that. What I'm about to describe is my experience. It is not based on any peer reviewed studies. When I take NR and NMN at the dosages I talked about a little bit earlier, it gives me a lot of sustained mental and physical energy throughout the day. Now I've always had a lot of mental and physical energy, but I'm 48 years old now and I'm interested in doing anything that I safely can to keep those levels of energy as high as is reasonable, right? I don't want to have so much energy that I can't sit still or so much energy that I can't sleep at night. But I find that when I take NR and NMN in the morning, so typically I'll do this before my first meal. I don't really regulate how close it is to that first meal. So I'll wake up, use the bathroom, hydrate, get my sunlight, do all the things I've talked about on other podcasts. But I'll take my NR and NMN sometime usually within about an hour or two of waking up. And typically at least 30 minutes to two hours before my first meal, which for me usually arrives around 11 a.m. So sometimes I'll take it long before my first meal. In any event, it gives me a lot of energy and I seem to have that energy throughout the day. I have gone periods of time where I stopped taking NR and or NMN. And while I didn't feel as if I was completely depleted of energy, I did notice a decrement in energy compared to when I took NR and NMN. Now I want to be very, very clear. I have no zero financial relationship to any company that manufacturers NR. And while I used to have a relationship to a company that made NMN, as of recently, there's an FDA ruling that has made NMN not available as a supplement in the wider world. So earlier this year, that is in 2023, there was a filing for NMN as a experimental drug in a clinical trial. And as a consequence, NMN was listed as a band or not allowed to be commercially sold supplement. And that has to do with some of the legality around clinical trials. And when something is listed as an experimental drug, it can't be listed as a supplement. Nonetheless, you can still find NMN on the open market. You can find it on Amazon. I can't really speak to the purity of one source versus another. You'll have to explore that on your own. But I will say this, even though I said it before, I have zero financial relationship to any company that manufacturers and sells NMN at this time or NR at this time. So the short summary to this whole discussion about NR and NMN is that I take NR and NMN, but I take it because I like how it makes me feel. It increases my energy levels in the morning and throughout the day. And it does so in a way that tapers off nicely in the evening and I can still fall asleep, et cetera. I do not take it with any expectation that it's going to increase my lifespan simply because I don't think the data substantiating the extension and lifespan are here yet. They may arrive at some point, but I don't think that they are here yet. So there are a good number of people out there that still take NR and or NMN and are doing so in efforts to increase NAD. And so let's take a moment and talk about increasing NAD directly because that's something that I have some recent experience with and that's becoming more common and is yes, still FDA approved, at least as far as I know. There are companies that can come to your house or you can go to a facility and they will give you an NAD infusion. So they will infuse you directly with NAD into the vein. I've done this twice now. And I will say, as most people experience when they do an NAD infusion, it's pretty darn uncomfortable. In fact, so much so that a lot of people have to take anti-nausea meds in order to get the NAD infusion. I opted to not take the anti-nausea meds not because I'm particularly tough, but because I don't like taking additional medication if I can, but I've taken anywhere from 500 to a thousand milligrams of NAD by infusion. I did that at times when I was feeling particularly run down. Okay, post illness. And I did indeed find that after the NAD infusion was complete, I felt much, much better in a number of different ways. Improved sleep, improved vigor, coming off those illnesses, I felt much better. But again, there is no clinical trial exploring NAD infusion for sake of vigor, et cetera, that I am aware of. I just happen to be somebody who's interested in exploring these tools and techniques from time to time. And I deemed this as safe. Whether or not it's safe for you, you have to explore with your physician. Also, I do want to reemphasize what I said a moment ago. Those NAD infusions are pretty darn uncomfortable. You can have the person administering the infusion adjust the rate of the infusion so that the drip is slower, which makes it more tolerable as opposed to trying to get the whole infusion bag in there in 45 minutes or less. I just want to get the whole thing over with. So I just said, put it in as quickly as you reasonably and safely can. It took about an hour, maybe 45 minutes to an hour. Initially, I felt nauseous. I felt like someone was stepping on my chest. I felt like someone was stepping on my legs. I felt like, oh, I just felt lousy. It was so awful. And then after about 10 minutes, it passed and I felt fine. And then after the infusion was done, as I mentioned before, I felt terrific. I was still able to fall asleep that night just fine. Although I did make it a point to do this earlier in the day, I have heard of some people doing NAD infusions later in the day and having challenges with sleep. But again, that's just anecdotal or we could call it any data if you want, but it's anecdotal. It's generally assumed for obvious reasons that NAD infusions are more effective at increasing cellular levels of NAD than are NR or NMN or both together. Although the direct comparison has not been made as far as I know. And there's still this general question as to whether or not any of this stuff is getting into cells directly and impacting NAD levels in specific cells. Although I think most people assume that the NAD infusion certainly are. 